Welcome back.
Let's talk about depth first search now.
We've implemented our breath first search and we feel comfortable for that.
But what about depth first search going down our tree and exploring the deepest part of that tree before
we come back up.
And explore the right side of the tree as well.
And when it comes to depth first search we have to be aware that there's three ways that we can actually
implement it.
It's called In order preorder and post order.
Remember how we had the list that we got with breath for a search.
Well there's three different orders that we can return this list with depth first search.
The first one is called in order and it looks something like this.
We go with 33 101 105.
It's called an order because in a binary search tree it gives everything in order.
If we take a look at this list or this tree Ideally in a in order traversal using depth first search
we would get something like this.
We would get one then for then 6 because we go 1 4 6 and then we go 9 and then we go all the way down
to 15 and then we come back up to 20 and then to 1 70.
It's in order because well look at that everything is in order.
So this is really useful if you have a binary search tree like this.
And now the way that you can return it.
It's called preop order and preorder starts off from the parent node down to 33 and then down to 105.
So we start off with the parent and then grab the child nodes left to right in our case it would look
something like this we would start off with nine because it's the parent 1 and then we grab for because
it's the next one in the list and then we go one as we're traversing all the way down.
Remember we're doing depth first search so all the way down and because we got to the very bottom we
now go back up and down to 6 so we see here we did 4 1 6 and then we go to the right side to 20 and
then grab 15 then 170 and you're asking yourself this seems kind of useless why would we ever want to
use preorder.
I mean in order we had everything in order why would we ever need this and preorder is really useful
if you want to for example recreate a tree.
Right.
Because with preorder I can just go nine is the root node.
Then we have four as the left hand side one as the left hand side and then from there we have six on
the right 20 to the right of 9 15 and then 170.
We can recreate a tree really easily because it's ordered for us versus the in order method that didn't
have that order that we wanted if we wanted to recreate a tree another way.
And the last way to do this is called Post order and post order is the last option that is going all
the way down.
Grabbing 33 and 1 to 5 then going to the top to the other parent.
So 33 1 to 5 1 to 1.
So in our case a post ordered depth first search will look like one then six then four and then going
back up all the way down to 15 than 170 then 20 and then finally 9 we search the left hand side first.
The children come before the parent and then we search the right hand side first and the children come
before the parent.
Now these three types of ordering are really specific and although it may look confusing right now you'll
see that when we write it in code it's not that difficult.
You just need to know that when it comes to depth first search you have these three types of traversals
that you can do that you may want to implement depending on your needs.
But the easiest way to show you how this works is what to actually do it in code.
So let's do that in the next video.